When we talk about HTTPS,
we are actually talking about two different concepts.
HTTP and TLS, formerly known as SSL.
We already know about HTTP,
and TLS stands for Transport Layer Security.
TLS is not specific to HTTP,
but any protocol can use it.
For example, there is FTPS,
which is FTP with TLS,
to transfer files securely.
TLS encrypts communication in a way that can't be
read by anyone else other than the intended recipients.
In practice, it is impossible to break a TLS encryption.
To ensure that you're talking to the server you intend to talk to,
TLS utilizes something called,
a chain of trust.
A server identifies itself with a certificate that contains
both a little metadata about itself and the fingerprint of its encryption key.
These certificates are issued by one of a handful certificate authorities.
If that certificate is signed by such an authority,
you know that if the key you're using matches that fingerprint,
then you're talking to the correct server.
The list of certificate authorities can actually be found in the browser.
You could even add your very own authority if you wanted to.
What you see here are mostly companies that you can buy certificates from.
They cost money as they not only validate your server,
but also validate your identity as the owner of that server.
Since not every developer can or wants to pay money for
a certificate to offer basic security to the users,
"Let's Encrypt" has come into the market and offer certificates for free.
Let's take a closer look at how certificates work and the security they provide.